# Link unique NFT to an AI/ML model

Artificial Intelligence (AI) is constantly evolving in its mission to mimic human intelligence. The adoption rates of AI in different domains, such as healthcare, finance, and transport, are consistently increasing. There have been many challenges posed since the inception of AI [. For example, AI models and datasets are scattered among individuals, organizations, and companies, hindering the potential of AI and creating a barrier to further contributions. Therefore, it is believed that shifting toward a transparent collaboration model can boost AI development and potential.

The difficulty of using AI as a third party is that it has a black box construct that provides no explainability for the user. In addition, the lack of information on the source of data, training process, and validation techniques of the model makes it harder for the user to trust the AI system. Therefore, the system must track information regarding all assets and provide provenance of data to overcome trust concerns. Tracking data provenance and ensuring transparency, in turn, 1) increases trustworthiness 2) enables more efficient use of AI models due to a better understanding 3) improves cooperation and collaboration by assisting entities in making confident decisions when exchanging AI assets. Tracking AI assets is crucial but is a point of concern with traditional centralized approaches with a single point of trust and failure. As such, utilizing JiaoziFS can provide the needed groundwork for building the desired decentralized system(Pando).

It is important to protect the ownership rights of the AI assets and their chain of original creators and contributors to prevent users from falsely claiming rights over others’ works. Non-fungible Tokens (NFTs) are a powerful mechanism that sits on top of the blockchain network and provides a means to represent assets as unique tokens that are associated with their appropriate owners [9]. NFTs were introduced with Ethereum’s improvement proposals and became a standard under ERC-721 (Ethereum Request for Comments 721). Unlike the fungible tokens standard (ERC-20) commonly used for cryptocurrencies, NFTs are unique and non-interchangeable. At the same time, NFTs reserve the right to use and distribute assets and manage them in public records with indisputable proof of ownership to ensure appropriate remuneration. This is because the unique token can be transferred while keeping an immutable history of a digital asset’s information. However, in a lot of cases, users prefer to keep their assets private, which is what we consider in our solution:Pando. Keeping the assets completely private without validation can leave the door open to inaccurate information and deception. Therefore, we utilize Trusted Execution Environments (TEE) and blockchain oracles to aid the end-users in validating assets while preserving the privacy of the assets. Furthermore, the storage of the NFT is usually done on a decentralized storage network. The asset is uploaded along with the corresponding metadata, and both are persistently saved on the blockchain. Finally, the system has to ensure fair compensation for AI developers in return for providing the appropriate AI assets to users. 